I have made an AOC internal release of SCHED for use between now and
when a proper full release can be made once the VEX code is updated at
JIVE.  This release is the version of 2004oct04.  I am taking this
unusual step because the new code is needed to support Mark5 on the
VLBA and because there have been a number of catalog updates that are
needed for upcoming global sessions.  The global users already have
the new catalogs and there is confusion when their files get here.  I
have also put the new release in the usual ftp area under obvious
names, but I do not plan to make a global announcement of its
presence.

The previous full release, and some special releases that have been in
use for Mark5, will be left in place just in case since I will be gone
for the next week and a half.  The full release is in
/users/cwalker/sched_2003sep18.  The users of the others know where
they are.  If you set environment variable SCHED to the above
directory, you will be using the old release.


The following are changes since the last major update.  You will see
these again when I make the main global release.

The major changes since the 18 Sept 2003 release are:

Port to OS X.  Required no changes outside the makefile.

Added complete VLBA 3mm frequency setups to freq.dat.

Added satellite tracking based on SPICE files.

Remove 9TRACK and add FTP to options for CORTAPE (correlator distribution).

Make VLA phasing mode VL or VR if that is needed to match following scans.

Update ATNF catalog entries.

Modify DOPINCR to allow a more general LO equation.

Add some parameters to begin support for EVLBI.

Add support for Mark5 on the VLBA.

Add MEDIADEF to station catalog to give default recording type when more
than one are available.  Needed during the tape-to-disk transition.

Various updates to the station and frequency catalogs.  We have finally
updated the station positions in SCHED and on the correlator to a recent
solution.  The positions did not change a lot, but the rates did and, since
we are about 7 years from the reference date, this is significant.  Also
we finally have a consistent set of station positions, source positions,
and EOP for use on the correlator and in SCHED.

There were also a number of other minor bug fixes and enhancements.  The
list of all of any significance is in the manual.
