Version 6.0 (March 2005) of SCHED has been released.  Note that versions
will now be numbered and have an associated approximate date.

DOWNLOAD INSTRUCTIONS

The files can be downloaded from anonymous ftp at ftp.aoc.nrao.edu.  
The usual files with source code, catalogs etc, and example outputs
are available.  There are also distribution specific files that have
everything, including the executables, for certain types of computers.
This is a change from previous releases where just the executables were
provided separately for different systems.

sched.src.6.0.tar.gz       The source code, makefiles etc.
sched.aux.6.0.tar.gz       The catalogs, examples, setup files, 
                           manual etc.
sched.stdout.6.0.tar.gz    Sample output files from the examples

sched.Linux.6.0.tar.gz     Complete linux installation 
                           (from a Redhat 9 system)
sched.Sun.6.0.tar.gz       Complete Solaris installation
sched.MacOSX.6.0.tar.gz    Complete Mac OSX installation 
                           (from version 10.3)

To use the complete installation versions, you should only need to
create a directory for the installation, move to that directory as
default, and unpack the tar file (tar -xvf <tarfilename> --gunzip).
You will need to set the SCHED environment variable to the
installation base directory (eg for tcsh: 
"setenv SCHED /users/cwalker/sched").  You might need to set the PGPLOT
environment variables, although my linux system seems to run ok
without them.  On my linux system, they are:

PGPLOT_DIR=/usr/lib/pgplot
PGPLOT_FONT=/usr/lib/pgplot/grfont.dat
PGPLOT_DEV=/XWIN


CHANGES

There are many changes and bug fixes since the 2003sep18 global
release and some since the 2004oct04 AOC internal release.  It is best
to look in the version notes in the manual for the details.  The
on-line manual is at
http://www.aoc.nrao.edu/~cwalker/sched/sched/sched.html.

Some sample changes are:

The source list in the summary file includes the number of scan and
baseline hours.

SCHED can now do satellite tracking using SPICE files and the JPL NAIF
software.  This is mainly of interest at NRAO and will only be
available on some systems.

Support for Mark5 on VLBA and VEX stations has been added.

Support for eVLBI using the Mark5 systems has been added.  This
supports eVLBI and ftp VLBI using VLBA (not tested) and VEX (tested)
stations.

Sched now tries to keep to the first 8 video converters in MarkIV
based systems.

A warning will be issued if too many scans per hour are scheduled at 
Jodrell

Stations are automatically removed from Mark5 scans when the source is
not up.

9TRACK was removed and FTP was added to correlator distribution options.

A full set of 3mm frequency setups for the VLBA was added to freq.dat.

Sched was ported to Mac OS X (This was trivial once X and PGPLOT were
set up).  

Prohibit oversampling greater than 4 for data going to JIVE.

Several evn examples were added.

See the manual for more.

Happy scheduling



Craig Walker
