NEWLOC is a program for updating the SCHED locations catalog based on
new solutions.  I typically use the GSFC solution, although it would
be possible to use Petrov's solution.  See the code for more details.

This program would be a simple format translator if it weren't for the
VLA.  The VLA coordinates are kept in another reference frame,
although it claims to be aligned with the ITRF.  NEWLOC uses
coordinates from the VLA and the ITRF coordinates the pad that is
included in the ITRF to shift all the VLA pad coordinates to the ITRF.
It can also do a rotation if there is a second station in common.  We
used to use Pie Town for that, but it is not in the current VLA
system.  Note that there were indications of a rotation between the
VLA system and ITRF of around a waveguide cycle (time Earth rotates in
a cycle).  We haven't gotten to the bottom of that, but it should be
investigate further, even though the waveguides are no longer in the
picture.

The code is here, but I still have the working areas elsewhere because
of the bulk.  Anything here can end up in the export files where bulk
is a bit of a concern.  As of this writing, the working areas are in
/home/noatak/cwalker/code/Calibration/GetCatalogs 
Note  /home/noatak/cwalker is NOT ~cwalker (which is on filehost).



Here is the README from the original directory that contained newloc:
--------------------------------------------------------------------

This README is the one transferred to the Newloc directory on 
Mar. 1, 2010 when setting up that area to be the code location.

I wrote NEWLOC to make a locations.dat file from the geodesy solution
files and from VLA station location data.  This was done in early
October 2008.  

Much of what the program does is make VLA ITRF positions from the VLA
file.  As of the advent of the new system at the VLA, the VLA
coordinates are in a file aligned with the ITRF but with a zero at the
array center.  So this program adds the shift to the Earth center and
allows an arbitrary rotation, which used to be the longitude of the
VLA with the old system, but is now a very small number.

The program prints out lots of information to help assess the quality
of the VLA position conversion.  It also shows the changes at a 
current epoch from the input locations.dat file.  That can show if
it is worth worrying about the update.

Note that to do a proper VLA conversion, the position of at least one
VLA pad must be in the geodetic solution.  Some geodetic solutions
have N8 from some mid 1990's data.  A new observation should be
made.  It is useful if the VLA data also has Pie Town for a second
point that can be used to be sure the frames don't have a relative
rotation.  

In Sep 2008, to get a good fit between current VLA positions from
Vivek and the old 2006 VLA positions, for which I had PT available,
I had to rotate the new system by 0.76 arcsec (VLAITS in newloc.inc).
Note that that is about 0.05 time seconds (1/20).  One waveguide 
cycle???  Note that this angle is hardwired in the program now.
Also the position to use for N8, if it is not in the geodetic
solution, is hardwired in (adjvla.f).

After doing all this in Sept 2008, the changes in the VLA positions
over the old data were sufficiently small that I am not going to
request a change to the data base.  But these tools should be useful
for future conversions.  So the new station catalog will be based on
2008a_astro for VLBI stations and on my old conversions for the VLA.
The differences are in the 1-2 cm level which is probably as good as
the N8 position.

Meanwhile clean up things a bit and put the program in a proper
subdirectory.


Evantually use SCHED or some such for inputs, and make so the
RUNIT file SED name conversions are not needed.
--------------------------------------------------End of old README


