These are simplified instructions for installing the PGPLOT
distributed with SCHED from the code.  Compiled libraries are also
provided with SCHED, but there could be compatibility issues that
would require you to recompile with the same OS and compiler that you
are using for SCHED.  If you want a full set of PGPLOT installation
instructions, go to src5.3.1/doc/index.html with a browser.

I have constructed a basic drivers.list for each architecture and have
made some small modifications to a couple of .conf files for use with
gfortran rather than g77.  Those .conf chagnes are in the RCW_additions
subdirectories and are included in the src files with symbolic links.
Note that MAC OSX goes under the name "darwin".

You will need X11, gfortran and other programming tools installed, but
you need those for SCHED anyway so I won't go through the instructions
to get those.

The initial supported versions are for linux 64 bit and OSX, both with
gfortran.

Here are the steps:

1.  cd to, or create a directory to hold your compiled libraries etc.
Some are already here and can be used, such as osx_intel_5.3.1

2.  Get a drivers.list, probably from one of the provided directories
of the sort in Step 1 above.  If you are using an existing directory,
it is probably there already.  Feel free to edit to add output options
as the one provided only invokes those drivers needed by SCHED, namely
xwindows, postscript and gif.  If you are making a pgplot for use by
other programs too, you are likely to want more.

3.  Execute makemake script to make the makefile and copy in some
other required files.  If you are using an existing directory and
makefile, pgxwin_server, cpgplot.h, grfont.dat, grpckg1.inc, rgb.txt,
and pgplot.inc are present, this may not be needed.  There are
domakemake scripts in the existing directories that can just be
executed, but paths may require you type your own.  An example line to
run makemake for OSX and gfortran with the default directory set to
osx_intel_5.3.1 and the code in ../src5.3.1 is:

../src5.3.1/makemake ../src5.3.1 darwin gfortran_gcc

4. Run make --- just type "make".
Check that libpgplot.a, libcpgplot.a grfont.dat, rgb.txt, and
pgwin_server are present after make is done.  There will be lots of
object modules and a few demo programs.  The object modules can be
cleaned out with a "make clean"

5.  If desired, move the files listed in 4 to some place where you
want your pgplot libraries, or provide links in that location to
where you built them.  Then set the environment variable PGPLOT_DIR
to that location (could be where you built them) with setenv (t or c
shell) or export (bash etc).

You may want to put the setenv/export command in your login script.

That should do it.  There is much more detail in the included PGPLOT
documention referenced above.

As of Sept. 24, 2011, there are build areas and libraries for
linux54 with gfortran and for osx (darwin) with gfortran.

R. C. Walker  2011 Sept. 24.
