There is one master makefile called Makefile.master.  The first part
of that file has a number of choices that need to be made to produce a
usable Makefile.  Options are offered and appropriate ones can be
uncommented.  Most of these options have to do what compiler to use
and where various libraries are located.  There are also options to
not use certain aspects of the program for which libraries might be a
problem to obtain.  These include plotting, which uses pgplot, and
satellite navigation.  I strongly recommend that you get pgplot and
set up the plotting.  It is very useful.  Only very rare users will
need the satellite tracking.

As an alternative to modifying Makefile.master, one can construct a
file to configure it as desired.  For each normally used option, there
is one alternative line that is just a place holder ending with the
letters "SED".  One can construct a script that uses the unix utility 
sed to replace those lines with the desired commands.  There are several
such scripts, called, for example, configureLinux, that do this.  For
standard setups, there may well be a script of that sort.  If the 
script is executed, it will use sed to make the desired subsititutions
and construct a Makefile.  Note any file called Makefile should be 
considered volatile.  These scripts delete the old one and make a new
one.  Don't put our critical changes there.  You can construct your own
script for your particular setup if you wish to use this mechanism.

The Makefile.master scheme was set up to get away from the previous
scheme where there were a number of full makefiles, each set up for a
particular environment.  That scheme just had too much risk of
parallel development and divergence.

The best way to do all this would probably be to make a proper
configure script that would probe the system and figure out what is
needed.  If someone has expertise making such scripts and is willing
to make one, we would be grateful.  I make no pretensions to being a
systems programmer.

The new scheme with Makefile.master was set up on Oct. 30, 2008 RCW.
